IP or Intenet Protocol
IP is a set of rules that are used to govern the communication on the network.
It defines how devices find each other, connect to each other and exchange data using IP Addresses

IP Address
In a layman's term we can compare IP Address to a postal address. How your postal address is used to locate your house and used by your relatives and friends to communicate with you, IP Address is used to locate the 
system/server/node in a communication network or distributed system.
Even your personal computer, laptop or tablet has a unique IP address, by which you device is identified on the network.
In terms of Distributed System, IP Address provide a "location tag" for the server or node, and also enable communication and routing with other nodes. It ensures that messages from one node reach the correct destination 
by directing them based on IP addresses. 

Types of IP Address Version
IPv4 : used 32-bit numeric dot-decimal notation that was abkle to serve 4B IP Addresses. 
       Example : 192.22.178.109 
                 Each dot seperated part in the above address is called an octet and can be any number between 0 - 255, which is represent uisng 8bit binary represenattion
                 Thus, 4*8bit = 32bit
IPv6 : uses 128-bit alphanumeric hexadecimal notation that is able to provide ~340e+36 IP Addresses. 
       Example : 2001:0bea:85jd:0000:0000:8dh9:0307:09w8 
                 Each colon seperated part in the above address is called an hextet, which is represent uisng 16bit binary represenattion
                 Thus, 8*16bit = 128bit  

Types of IP Address:
Public : In this type of IP address, each of the connected device has the same IP address. Example : IP address provided by your ISP to your router.
Private : Unique IP address number assigned to each device. Example : IP address generated by your home router for your device
Dynamic : These IP address change from time to time and are not always the same.

What kind of IP is assigned to an application is deployed to an AWS server:
Applications deployed on AWS server usually have a combination of Public and Private IP addresses.
- Frontend Applications : are often deployed on Public Subent with a Public IP Address, to allow any user on the internet to access it.
- Backend Applications : are deplyed on Private Subnet with a Private IP Address for internal communication within the VPC, while allowing the frontend services and other authorized services to communicate with it.

