CAP Theorem

CAP stands for Consistency, Availability and Partition Tolerance.
Consistency : All nodes of a distributed system have the same data, ensuring every read has the same data or error
Availability : The system always responds when a request is made, even if the data is not in the most current state.
Partition Tolerance : The system continues to operate even when the communication link between some node breaks in a distributed system.

CAP Theorem states that, when a network partition (network failure) happens, as system can be either Available or Consistent. Thus, grouping systems into 3 main categories:
CA Systems - Systems that are available and ensure consistency but cannot tolerate network partition 
             Eg: Relational Database
                 C : Uses ACID properties to ensure all nodes have the same data
                 A : Respond to all requests as long as there is no partition
                 Cannot handle partition, as soon as partition occurs the system stops being distributed
AP Systems - In case of network partition, the system will be available but some nodes might not have the most recent data.
             Eg: Apache Casandra
                 P : Replicates data in multiple nodes to handle partition
                 A : The system gives a non-errornous response, even during network partition. The response might be servered from a replica node and might not contatin the latest 
                     state but a response is always served
                 In order to be available, these systems provide eventual consistency, thus making data temporarily different in different nodes
CP Systems - In case of network partition, the system might not be available to all nodes not being consistent.
             Eg: HBase
                 C : Ensures the write has happened successfully for all nodes before read request
                 P : Handles patrition by using mechanism like HDFS(Hadoop Distributed File System). The system mantains consistency using WAL(Write Ahead Log) and replicates 
                     data across all nodes.
                 If the entire quorum of nodes are not available during a network partition, the system may reject some requests to ensure consistency.
